Open/close design: Add two more alternatives using exact HTML syntax (#517)
unicode-org/message-format-wg: exploration/open-close-expressions.md

_What other solutions are available?_
_How do they compare against the requirements?_
_What other properties they have?_

### Do Nothing

> We could not provide any special support for spans and markup elements,
> and instead delegate the problem completely to tools and downstream processing layers.

Reviewer: "could not" is hard to parse?

```suggestion
Do not provide any special support for spannables or markup.
This would delegate the problem to tools and downstream processing layers.
```

```

> This is <html:strong>bold</html:strong> and this is <html:img alt="an image">.

Reviewer: Why the `html:` prefix? 

```suggestion
This is <strong>bold</strong> and this is <img alt="an image" src="{$imgsrc}">.
```

```

#### Pros:

> * No work required from us right now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* No work required from us right now. We can always add support later.
* We already support (and are required to support) in-line literal markup in messages, since they are just character sequences.

Author: Thanks for adding these. I agree with your last point. Re. the first two:

* "add support later" -- we'd need to carefully reserve syntax for the future addition and we'd need to do it now.
* "we already support" -- see my other comment from today; I wouldn't call it "support"; instead, perhaps "not impede" is a better phrasing.

Author: I'm going to commit this suggestion and propose a slightly different wording in a follow-up comment.

* It's HTML.
* The least surprising syntax for developers and translators.

> * Some CAT tools already support HTML in translations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some CAT tools already support HTML and other markup in translations.
* Supports other markup or templating syntaxes with no additional effort (it's just strings)
```

Author: I like this suggestion, but one comment: `supports` is saying too much. This approach *doesn't impede* markup expressed as regular text, but also does nothing to *support* it. It doesn't exist in the AST, in the data model, nor doesn't affect the result of `formatToString` not `formatToParts`.

Author: I'm going to commit this suggestion and propose a slightly different wording in a follow-up comment.

#### Cons:

> * Requires quoting in XML-based containers.

Reviewer: But this isn't any different from a string that happens to contain any of the syntax characters.

Author: Yes, but I think this is worth calling out explicitly because:

* HTML markup in translations is common, and
* storing translations in XML-based containers is common.

The combination of these two points means that if the syntax to get HTML markup in MF2 is the HTML syntax (because there's no alternative), then you'll get a lot of `&lt;` in XML-based containers.

* Relies on a best-effort convention; is not a standard.

> * Markup becomes a completely alient concept in MessageFormat:

Reviewer: Typo

```suggestion
Markup becomes a completely alien concept in MessageFormat:
```

  * It cannot be validated via the AST nor the reigstry.
  * It cannot be protected, unless put inside literal expressions.
  * It is not supported by `formatToParts`, which in turn makes double-parsing difficult.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It requires special handling when inserting messages into the DOM.
* It requires "sniffing" the message to detect embedded markup. XSS prevention becomes much more complicated.

### HTML Syntax

We could parse the HTML syntax as part of MessageFormat parsing,
and represent markup as first-class data-model concepts of MessageFormat.

```

> This is <html:strong>bold</html:strong> and this is <html:img alt="an image">.

Reviewer: The HTML prefix is still inappropriate here?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is <strong>bold</strong> and this is <img alt="an image">.
```

```

To represent HTML's auto-closing tags, like `<img>`,
we could follow HTML's syntax to the letter, similer to the snippet above,
and use the *span-open* syntax for them.
This would be consistent with HTML, but would require:

* Either the parser to hardcode which elements are standalone;
  this approach wouldn't scale well beyond the current set of HTML elements.

* Or, the validation and processing which leverages the open/close and standalone concepts
  to be possible only when the registry is available.

Alternatively, we could diverge from proper HTML,
and use the stricter XML syntax: `<img/>`.

```
This is <html:strong>bold</html:strong> and this is <html:img alt="an image" />.
```

The same approach would be used for self-closing elements defined by other dialects of XML.

#### Pros:

* Looks like HTML.
* The least surprising syntax for developers and translators.

#### Cons:

* Looks like HTML, but isn't *exactly* HTML, unless we go to great lengths to make it so.
  See the differences between HTML and React's JSX as a case-study of consequences.

> * Requires quoting in XML-based containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Requires quoting in XML-based containers.
* It only supports HTML.
```
